The Nuggets might have had the best off season of any team, making a flurry of moves to maximize their strengths, shore up their weaknesses, and add depth. But what can we actually expect from them in 2026? And are they good enough to win a championship? Denver had themselves a really interesting 2025 season. With a top three offense and bottom 10 defense, they scored their way to 50 wins and made it to the second round. Of course, they'd go on to lose to OKC and seven with many considering that to be the

toughest series the Thunder had to go through. Just looking at the numbers, you'd think that bottom 10 defense ultimately led to their demise. And while it wasn't great, their defense was actually pretty solid in the playoffs. They implemented an aggressive scheme built on plugging the gaps with early help, rotating on a string, and essentially zoning up the ball at all times. This forced ball handlers to have to make tough decisions, which ultimately led to them bottling up plenty of isolations, doing a decent job

against pick and roll, and really limiting spot-up threes. If we take a look at OKC's offensive rating by series, you'll notice that their worst scoring performance out west actually came against the Nuggets and not either of the top 10 defenses they faced. The biggest problem for Denver in that series was that they weren't producing anywhere near the level of offense they'd shown to be capable of. After reaching a historic 120 offensive rating over the season and giving an elite

Clippers defense 116, they completely fell off a cliff against the Thunder. And that was the result of a few different issues. Firstly, OKC was simply one of the best defensive teams we've ever seen. Between their options at every position and their versatility, not just in terms of scheme, but also lineups, they had an answer for literally everything the Nuggets tried to do. Secondly, the Nuggets couldn't take care of the ball. Again, some of that was OKC's aggression and elite defensive playmaking, but some of it was

also a lack of ball handling talent on Denver's part. At times, leaning on Jokic to be a full-time point guard for the offense. Even more of it was a lack of passing talent. The Thunder were able to get away with putting guards and wings on Jokic consistently knowing that the Nuggets wouldn't be able to get him the ball deep in the post. Then the third and main issue was that OKC took advantage of Denver's complete and utter lack of shooting. By making a deliberate effort to send help on every drive, cut

and post up, they were able to intentionally turn all four of Aaron Gordon, Christian Brown, Russell Westbrook, and Peyton Watson into vital outside shooters. and those four shot a combined 40 of 127 or 31 1.5% from three. Then the guy they typically rely on for that spacing, Michael Porter Jr. was battling a shoulder injury, so he shot just 9 of 36 or 25% from three. Because nobody could make the Thunder pay from outside, the Nuggets didn't have any space to operate against an all-time great defensive unit. That takes us into the NBA offseason where Denver's front office made a deliberate effort to fix the offense. Their first order of business was to trade Michael Porter Jr. for Cam Johnson. At face value, this might seem like a lateral move because on the surface, they're both big forwards who specialize in shooting the three ball. Over the last three seasons, they both

shot a lot of catch and shoot threes and both hit well above a 40% clip. The biggest difference is that while Cam's diet consisted primarily of open threes, MPJ took three times as many contested ones. And I'd say most shooting indicators lean in his favor. Even if he didn't get as many open threes, he shot a little bit better on those. And because he's a couple inches taller with insane elevation on his jumper, he straight up doesn't see contests. However, I think Cam has an advantage in

pretty much every other offensive category. Due to injuries and a lack of talent on the net, he was basically forced into a first option role last year and showed that he could be so much more than a spot-up shooter. I'm talking about legitimate ball handling reps where he's looking to attack downhill. Not only does he have the touch to finish in a variety of ways, he's a pretty solid decision-maker who will make the right passes out of drives. Most of the action Brooklyn ran for him was

already similar to what he'll see in Denver. Lots of dribble handoffs, lots of down screens, just putting him in positions to make quick decisions off the catch or on the move. And that fits like a glove with the way the Nuggets run everything through Jokic. I think the added ball handling, passing, and overall decision-making in comparison to Porter should add another layer to this offense, making them just a little bit more dynamic and tougher to scheme for come playoff time. With MPJ, the

playoffs could be extremely hit or miss. Thanks to the ridiculous shotmaking, he could hit heights as a scorer that you won't really find in most third or fourth options. Take the 2024 first round. The Lakers had nobody to put on him, so he had a green light to empty the clip. And that resulted in averages of 23 points a game on about 70% true shooting. But then in the very next round, you could see how his one-dimensional approach also gave him an extremely low floor. The Wolves had size and length, his shot went cold, and

he averaged about 11 points a game on 49% true shooting. Or even go back to the NBA Finals in 2023. They won in five, so it's somewhat overlooked, but again, we're looking at 9.6 6 points a game on 39% true shooting. For a player whose value is primarily determined by scoring output, this leads to quite a few instances where you wonder if it's even worth keeping him on the floor to close games. I just don't view this as a problem they'll run into with Cam. He might not have the difficult shotmaking

to hit those heights that Mike did. But because he's more dynamic, he'll always have a spot on the court. Then on defense, neither are anything to write home about. Porter offered quite a bit as a weak side rim protector due to his size and athleticism, but he lacked the foot speed or strength to really make a difference as a man defender. Whereas Cam's a lot lighter on his feet, better at containing the ball while not offering as much on the interior. So, all things considered, I'd expect Denver

starting five to be more or less the same on defense. For all of the differences in their games, though, I'd say the biggest variable in this trade is the contracts. Porter's salary for 2026 is $17 million more expensive, and that opened up the floodgates for the Nuggets to then make a flurry of moves. Firstly, they immediately brought back Bruce Brown on a minimum. Brown's kind of been in and out of rotations and on and off the court for the past 2 years, but when he's healthy and maximized in

his role, he can be a pretty solid bench piece. He's a good defensive guard who can chase ball handlers or shooters around screens, switch on to multiple positions, and use his length to make plays. And on offense, he's not the type to burn you from three, but offers a nice presence as a secondary ball handler who can set up plays, get downhill, and overall just make solid decisions. Of course, he'll probably be taking Russell Westbrook spot as a point guard of the bench unit, and I want to

say that I do think they're losing some valuable attributes without Russ. I mentioned how his lack of shooting became a big problem for them against OKC. What I didn't mention is that throughout the course of the season, his passing really helped them unlock Jokic as a scorer even more. And his ability to push pace completely transformed their approach. After adding Russ, they went from consistently ranking in the bottom 10 or even bottom five in offensive pace to the eighth fastest team in basketball, which I think did a lot for

guys like Christian Brown and Peyton Watson. So, we'll have to see whether or not the Nuggets continue to make transition offense a point of emphasis with David Adelman at the helm and whether or not Bruce Brown can mimic some of that value. Regardless, Denver's front office was far from done making moves. The day after signing Brown, they added Tim Hardaway Jr., which could end up being a pretty big move for their offensive depth. Hardaway is the definition of a specialist. He's there to shoot threes and that's about it. If he gets hot, he can swing a playoff game, and if he goes cold, well, Denver's got other options. If we go back to that comparison between Cam and Porter and include Hardaway, he isn't quite as accurate as the other two, but lets that thing fly even more. And he's a good enough shotmaker that along with the confidence. Defenses have to respect them on the perimeter. So, he brings a much needed presence as a floor spacer. All things considered, I'd say they

improved upon their biggest weakness from last year's playoff exit. By adding two high level three-point shooters and another backup ball handler, they can field out much more productive offensive lineups that emphasize space. But what I haven't talked about is their biggest regular season weakness, which has plagued them for the better part of a decade. It's no secret that when Jokic is on the floor, the Nuggets are a really good team. But I think the extent of just how good they are gets overlooked

at times. Over the course of an 82 game season, you can almost guarantee that the Nuggets are going to outscore their opponent by at least eight points, sometimes up in that 11 to 12 range. And just for some context, that plus 10.9 mark from last season was equivalent to what the Celtics produced with Tatum on the court during their championship year. The problem is that you won't catch Denver winning 64 games because of what happens when Joic goes to the bench. They don't just struggle to stay

afloat. They nose dive off a cliff, consistently performing like one of the worst teams in basketball. There are a few factors at play here, notably the team's reliance on him to create almost everything on offense, but at the forefront has been their lack of a backup five. In 2021, most of their backup five minutes went to Jamaichel Green, a 6'8 power forward. In 2022, they had Demarcus Cousins for 31 games. And during that time, the nonic minutes actually weren't all that bad, producing

a 116 offensive rating and near neutral net. Since then, it's either been Small Ball, DeAndre Jordan, Thomas Bryant, or most recently, Dario Charich. But in their last move of the summer, they got rid of Dario Saric for Jonas Valencunis. Jonas doesn't offer a ton of versatility. But what he does offer is this pseudo Jokic style of play that should allow the Nuggets to at least survive during those minutes. He's huge. He's a monster rebounder. He can pass, he can screen, and he's very quietly one

of the best post scorers in the league. What else could you ask for from a spot backup five for 13 or 14 minutes a game? And if you're worried about the lack of defensive versatility, well, they can still go small with Aaron Gordon or Peyton Watson at the five. Speaking of Watson, one underrated aspect of the Nuggets is how much room they still have for internal development. I actually think Watson's role was miscast last season because of Denver's lack of on ball defense. He was expected to be a primary

wing defender off the bench. And while he's not incapable of doing those things, to me, he's clearly at his best behind the play. Between his activity, length, and athleticism, he's on a short list of the top non- big rim protectors in the league by adding Bruce Brown and Cam Johnson as improved man defenders and losing MPJ as the primary backline guy. Watson should be enabled to showcase that ability even more. And because they also improved the shooting, his lack of floor spacing could be a bit

more tenable come playoff time. So, don't be surprised if he's got a bigger role in year four. Another fourth year guy is Christian Braun. He already sort of took that leap last season, but this will be year two for him as a full-time starter, and there could be some more room for growth as an outside shooter, slasher, and point of attack defender. Julian Strawther and Jaylen Picket are both entering year three. Each had moments off the bench, while Don Holmes has yet to play in a single NBA game.

All that to say, this lineup is deep. I feel really good about their top nine. I think the starters are a little bit better. I think they've got more offensive firepower coming off the bench. They finally have a backup five. And that 10th spot is really up for grabs on any given night depending on the matchup or who's hot. It's as simple as just not overthinking it. Last season, the Nuggets won 50 games. And that includes the 4 and8 record they had in the 12 Yic missed. Then they went

into the playoffs, knocked out a really strong Clippers team before pushing the NBA champions to seven. And instead of settling, they instantly got active in the off season, improving their starting lineup while adding a few valuable bench pieces. And for those reasons, I'd say I'm pretty high on them. They've got the shotmaking, offensive versatility, and size to overwhelm just about any opponent. And they have the best player in the world. But they're not perfect. The onball

defense, and rim protection still leave a little bit to be desired, and I do question what type of shot creation they'll be able to get from the perimeter if Bruce Brown can't fill Westbrook's shoes. I'd still say they're an average to slightly below average defense. Not too different from what we saw last year, but I'm all in on the offensive upside. And as of right now, they'd actually be my pick for the league's best offense. For that reason, it's tough for me to see them winning any less than 50 games. And if those non-jokic minutes are even close to neutral, they could be pushing 60. Come playoff time. It's matchup dependent. And I wouldn't be surprised to see another Western Conference juggernaut knock them out in round two. But they're still in my inner circle and one of a few teams who I'd say have a legitimate shot at a championship. Will one of their young guys take a leap? Will the added shooting be a game-changer? Can Jokic win his fourth MVP? Only time will tell. But one thing I feel confident saying is that we're about to witness up until this point the best Nuggets team of the Nicola Jokic era.