The Timberwolves are starting to enter the prime years of Anthony Edwards, 24 years old, season number six. It's time. But what can we actually expect from them in 2026? And are they good enough to compete for a championship? After making the Western Conference Finals in 2024, they had a lot of work to do if they wanted to get back there. Some of their issues were mitigated by Anthony Edwards making one of the most outlandish shooting leaps in the history of the game. But with that, they still

had to find a way to integrate Julius Randall, maximize Divincenzo's game, and manage Connley's aging skill set while finding time to develop some of their young core. And it wasn't easy to start, but by the end of the season, they really found a groove, ultimately posting a top 10 offense and defense on their way to nearly 50 wins. However, it wasn't until the playoffs that we'd see the extent of just how good this team could be. Between the two-man punch of Ant and Randall, the depth, lineup

flexibility, and defensive dominance, they coasted through the first two rounds of the playoffs until they ran into OKC. Then in the conference finals, they struggled with a few of the same issues that led to their exit against the Mavs. Firstly, they lacked the playmaking talent to consistently break down OKC's elite defense. I want to give a ton of credit to Ant for the way he read the aggressive help, got downhill, and made all of the right reads, but basically nobody else on the floor could

generate pressure. That over reliance on Ant in the back court is something that they really couldn't work around as Conley couldn't keep up on either side of the ball while Dante isn't near the same level of decisionmaker. Secondly, their predictable defensive scheming made it easy for the Thunder to get hot. What I mean by that is because Minnesota never got super creative with their game plan, OKC knew exactly what they needed to do to score. Not only did Shai have a great series, so did JDub and Chet.

And when those three guys are all producing highlevel offense, that team is basically unbeatable. All that to say, despite back-to-back conference finals appearances, I do feel like this Wolves team was still a ways away from truly competing for a championship. And the reason I bring that up is because they didn't exactly dominate the offseason. They lost a key rotation piece in Nikeil Alexander Walker. As a seventh or eighth guy off the bench, Walker brought a nice presence as a 3 and D wing who could occasionally handle

the ball. At the point of attack, he could be a serious disruptor. Although, I think it's worth noting that he was noticeably less effective the deeper they got into the playoffs. By nature of having a skinnier frame, he isn't as effective against bigger or stronger wings and guards, which you're bound to run into by rounds two or three. So, I don't think Minnesota lost a ton by not getting him back. The only problem is that they made no effort whatsoever to fill his role. Their only acquisitions

of the offseason were two rookie draft picks, both of which are centers. Yoan Being is an especially intriguing prospect because he's still 18 years old and only picked up basketball in 2021. So, we could be talking about lots of untapped potential. Even now, you can see the size, quick twitch athleticism, and mobility to offer tons of defensive versatility from the five-spot, which really popped in summer league along with the explosiveness, timing, and overall instincts as a rim protector.

You could really see the makings of a modern-day defensive anchor. It's just that with Yoan, we're talking about a long-term boomer type of guy. He's still incredibly raw in most areas, like his discipline on defense, his complete lack of upper body strength, and the fact that he's pretty much limited to rim running or lob catching on offense. It could take years for him to fill out his frame, let alone develop meaningful offensive skills. And while that makes him a really interesting project

long-term, it doesn't do much for a hopeful contender. The same goes for Rockco Zakarsski. He just turned 19 and his selling point is the massive frame as he's officially listed at 7 foot4 260 lbs. With that size though, he's had some injury and conditioning concerns. And like Yoan, his skill set is really raw on both sides of the ball. So, we're talking about another long-term prospect. Essentially, the Wolves are just running it back from last year. So then the question becomes just how much room is there for internal development? That starts with Anthony Edwards who seems to add something new every year. Whether it was the ball handling, the decision-making, the passing, or the pull-up three-point shooting, he's shown a rare ability to just always improve. And that next step for him has to be the mid-range game. His mid-range shooting has gotten better each season, but he's

yet to log a year above 40%. And we've seen that lack of consistent in-between scoring cause issues for him against both the Mavs and the Thunder. The short jumpers are one thing, but I'm more so referring to his complete lack of a floater, which could really help against those top tier defenses that load up to prevent him from getting to the rim. Another guy who feels like he's always ready to take a leap, is Jaden McDaniels. Every year, you'll have these stretches where he starts to ascend only

to come right back to earth. Just look at his scoring from each month of last season. You'll have months where he's below 10 points a game, a month where he's over 18, another in that 14 to 15 range, and it always seems to average out at about 12. This even showed up in the playoffs. He dropped 25 on the Lakers in game one, only scored eight in game two, then followed that with a 30 ball in game three. The conference finals were the epitome of what I'm talking about, hitting some decent

highs, but truly just up and down with every performance. You have to wonder if he'll ever be a guy who can consistently hit that ceiling. We know he can hit the open three. We know he can get above the rim. We know he can put the ball down occasionally. Will he ever put it all together? If so, he can be used in a variety of ways. Whether that's attacking mismatches, curling off of screens, or just attacking closeouts where he's already showcased a nice mid-range game. Even if the wing play

takes a leap, though, Minnesota's biggest issue remains at the point guard position. As I mentioned earlier, Mike Conley simply couldn't keep up on either side of the ball in the playoffs. After all, he turns 38 years old in a month, and he's a small guard with little to no physical advantages. That regression really hit him as an inside the arc scorer, making 10% less of his two-pointers throughout the season. And that carried right into the playoffs, where he made 25% of his two-pointers

after previous runs in the mid to high 40s. Because he wasn't a threat at all to score inside the ark, he was a non-factor as a ball handler, especially out of pick and roll. And that led to the over reliance on Ant to create everything. In order for the Wolves to take that next step forward, they're going to have to upgrade the position. And that's why maybe the most important thing for them moving forward is whether or not Rob Dillingham is ready. One of the reasons it was tough to find real

rotation minutes for Rob last year was because of his defense. He's one of the smallest players in the league and struggles to contain the ball in space, so he's ineffective against every position. Typically, they want to hide him, but as we've seen in recent years, there's no such thing as hiding in the playoffs. Conley struggled, too. However, he's a lot stronger, a lot longer, and most importantly, he's one of the smartest team defenders in the league, so he could still make a

difference through his positioning and timing. The key for Rob will be finding any redeeming defensive quality. I'd say the effort and buyin are already there, and his skinny frame helps him get around screens, so he can be a bit of a pest against smaller guards or movement shooters. His hands are decent and historically a lot of weak defenders have helped highlevel team defenses by getting aggressive lanes and generating turnovers. I'd also expect him to fill out his frame and get a lot stronger.

So, it could just be a matter of time before he's at least playable because offensively, if you're a Rob fan, you probably saw everything you wanted to see from him as a rookie, even in limited minutes. He showed that his quick twitch athleticism and downhill aggression absolutely translate to the NBA level as defenders couldn't keep him away from the paint. Out of drives, he not only showed nice touch around the basket, he showed an advanced short mid-range game and the ability to consistently find the open man. The

confidence as a pull-up three-point shooter also stood out, as did his ability to operate out of pick and roll. It came and went in flashes, but you could see the roots of a three-level shot creator and shot maker who can handle the ball and pass. Does that not sound like exactly what the Wolves want next to Ant? There are a few major swing skills for Rob that I think could make or break his ceiling, though. For one, he didn't generate any free throws whatsoever, and for a slasher, you'd

like to see him find more ways to use his body and draw fouls. Also, he has a decent track record of being a high turnover guy at each level, and he'd probably have to be more secure with the ball to justify getting the touches of a starting point guard. Maybe most importantly, though, is what he can do away from the ball. Part of what made Conley such a great backcourt partner was his offball movement, shooting, and quick decision-making off the catch. And we'll have to see if Rob has any of that

because as long as Ants on the court, he's the focal point, and it's on those other guys to play off of him. Speaking of which, I think Terrence Shannon Jr. has already shown that he can do so. Actually, if I were making a list of potential breakout candidates for next season, Shannon would be near the very top of the list. As a rookie, he was an absolute monster as a slasher, cutter, and interior finisher. Between his size, strength, explosiveness, and aggression, nobody could stop him from getting to

the rim or the free throw line at will. And that's why he had a few moments despite only playing limited minutes for 32 games. Remember when the Wolves stormed back from down 25 to beat the Thunder? Shannon had 17 that night. Then a few days later, he followed that up with 25 against the Lakers. His best moments came in the conference finals though against OKC's historic defense because he checked into the second quarter of game three after not being in the rotation and you could instantly

tell that they had no idea how to keep him away from the basket. And then he did the exact same thing in the second quarter of game four playing this specialized brief role to boost the offense. Over the entire series he ended up playing 39 minutes and scoring 37 points. The question is, how much else is there in addition to the slashing? Can he be a reliable shooter? Can he leverage his size and athleticism into serious defensive value? And most importantly, is he a good enough playmaker to break down defenses and

create for others? I don't think he'll ever be a guy who's legitimately running the offense. But just taking some of that pressure off of Ant as a second or third guy who can slash off the catch would work wonders for them deep in the playoffs. While we're talking about second-year players, I should also mention Jaylen Clark, who could just be a sneaky replacement for Alexander Walker. Clark is quick, he's strong, he's long, and he's got ridiculously disruptive hands. So, I'd take a bet on

him becoming a really good point of attack defender. Again, though, how much is there on offense? Is he a reliable shooter? Can he handle the ball at the NBA level? And to what extent? All that's to say, because the Wolves have been so good, so ahead of schedule, I think their youth gets overlooked. Of course, they've got two teenagers, but among potential rotation pieces for this next season, they've got five players who are all 25 or younger, three of which are entering year two. If any of

them take that next step forward along with another year of integration for Dante Divencenzo and Julius Randal, that's a seriously deep team on both sides of the ball. They've got size, they've got lineup versatility, they've got depth, and they've got three or four options for different types of offensive initiators. But as long as they lack creativity on defense and rely on 38-year-old Conley in the back court, they've still got a few glaring weaknesses that, in my opinion, take

them down a notch or two on both sides of the ball. For that reason, I think they're in a pretty similar spot. Anywhere from 48 to 53 wins, a lock for the playoffs, yet still not in position to truly compete for a championship. It's worth noting though that this is far from a one-year experiment. This team is young with at least three or four prospects who have serious boom potential and they've got a 24year-old superstar. So, who knows? Maybe one of these young guys takes a serious leap

and vaults them into a contender. Or maybe this is more of a transitional period and the real championship level squad is lurking in the shadows.