It's hard to describe just how good of a situation OKC is in right now. They won their first ring in franchise history. They've got an all-time great in the heart of his prime. And they're still one of the youngest teams in the NBA. But will they be able to defend their championship? And do they have the potential to become the next dynasty? It's no secret that the Thunder had a historically dominant 2025 season. They finished with the number four offense, number one defense, 68 wins in a championship. But what's crazy is that you could argue even that doesn't do their performance justice. With a defensive rating of 107.9, they were about 7 points ahead of the league average, which relatively speaking ranks 13th in NBA history. Remember though, Chet missed 50 games, Caruso missed 28, Hartenstein missed 25, and you had Jaylen Williams running the five for extended stretches. So, we didn't really get to see them at full strength until the playoffs. And throughout their championship run, they held their opponents to 11 points below their average offensive rating, which again, relatively speaking, would rank second in NBA history among all teams to make the finals behind just the 1964 Celtics. By any metric, this was one of the best defensive teams we've ever seen. And that's primarily the result of having basically the perfect personnel. Caruso is arguably the best non- big defender in the league. Chad's a top tier rim protector. And neither of them were the two players to make all defense. That would be Lou Dort, an elite point of attack defender, and Jub, one of the league's most versatile defensive wings. But for a little more speed on the perimeter, they could go to Cason Wallace. For more length on the wings, they could go to Shai. And for more size in the middle, they could go to iHeart. They had great options. For every type of offensive player, could execute literally every scheme to perfection, could put out any lineup imaginable, and were extremely well coached. So, that's the floor. Even if the team was physically incapable of scoring the ball, they'd be a threat to win 45 games just based on the fact that nobody could score on them. But what took them to all-time great status is that they were also led by one of the best offensive players we've ever seen. She's ability to create high percentage shots for himself at will out of any situation without ever turning the ball over made him the perfect centerpiece for OKC's defensively slanted roster. And really the only drawback with their offense was that at times they could get a little bit too reliant on him creating everything for them in limited space. Even heading into the playoffs, most concerns about the Thunder as a clear number one contender stemmed from whether or not they'd have the shot creation outside of Shay to break down highlevel playoff defenses. There were some rough patches like when Denver sent everyone to the middle of the floor and pack the paint or when Indiana brought their aggressive fullcourt pressure and ball denial to make somebody else initiate. But what we saw throughout the run was the emergence of Jalen Williams as a highlevel offensive number two who could run the point, put immense pressure on the rim, and take some of that responsibility off of Shay. Then they also got some moments from Aaron Wiggins off the bench as a sort of third perimeter creator. And between the versatility of Chet, passing of Hartenstein, and occasional hot shooting from role players, they had more than enough offense around Shay to cap off their all-time great season with the first ring in franchise history. What if I told you that OKC still has lots of room for improvement? I mentioned how JDub sort of ascended throughout the run. That stood out most in the finals when the Pacers did everything they possibly could to take the ball out of Shais hands and force somebody else to create. OKC didn't try to fight it. If anything, they embraced it. started running more of their offense through Jdub as the initiator. And by the end of the series, he was handling the ball just as much, if not more than Shai. He took that added responsibility and hit offensive heights that we hadn't previously seen from him. He's always been a good enough shooter, ball handler, and decision maker to elevate the offense as an off-the-catch weapon. And he paired that with the difficult shotmaking ability to go off in spurts, almost looking like a go-to creator at times. But he hadn't yet shown the level of aggression or willingness to leverage his strength into consistent downhill opportunities without an advantage until OKC found themselves deep in the playoffs. After averaging about four shots at the rim throughout the season, he followed that up with an average of nearly 5 and a half in the playoffs, which hit its peak against the Pacers. And his free throws followed a similar trend, up from four in the season to almost six in the playoffs and getting over eight in seven NBA Finals games. All that's to say, I think there's a chance we see a completely different Jalen Williams next season. What if the version we saw in the finals is just who he is as an offensive player now? Not only would he be an even more dynamic off-the-catch weapon playing off of Shay, he'd be so much more capable of generating offense during the non-shai minutes, which was actually one of their weaker points. With those two on the floor together, an offensive rating of 121 with Shay as the lone star, 128. But with Jada running those units a little under 114. Imagine we're talking about a team that's winning the minutes without their best player by six or seven points. 70 wins wouldn't be out of the question. And even scarier, what about Chet Holmgren? Chad's a bit of a specialist on offense, spacing the floor in a variety of ways, finishing plays at the rim or from behind the ark, and occasionally putting the ball on the deck to attack a tilted defense. One of his limitations though was that his shot mechanics were really slow, so he couldn't always get the three ball off against aggressive defense. Well, he's gone into the offseason and made it a point of emphasis to speed up the jumper, so he could reach new heights as a shooter. What I find even more interesting, though, is the driving game. Because part of what makes Cet so unique is that as a lengthy 7 foot one center, he can legitimately handle the ball, get downhill, and even use the mid-range game a little bit. that really stood out at the beginning of last season when he ripped off three straight 20-point games and looked more than ready to take the leap. Then in the 10th game of the season, he suffered a hip injury that kept him sidelined for 3 months. And after coming back, he never quite moved with that same fluidity. OKC's success overshadowed the fact that Chad probably was never fully healthy. And now that he'll have a full off season to rest and get his body right, what if that fluidity is back to start the season? Not only would he be a much bigger threat on offense, he'd be moving even better on defense and could really ascend into a different tier. If either Jada Bett takes that next step forward, I'm really not sure how you're supposed to defend the Thunder. And that's without even getting into some of their depth pieces. What if this is the year Cason Wallace puts it all together? What if Aaron Wiggins rides the highs of that championship run into more confident and consistent production? Or even more intriguing, what about the prospects they've got stashed deep in the roster? AJ Mitchell had a productive rookie season in limited minutes, and he's got the tools to one day be a great pick and roll ball handler. Nicola Topic missed his entire rookie season with injury, but looks more than ready for year two. And between his size, feel for the game and elite level passing. I wouldn't be surprised if he found his way into that rotation. Thomas Sorber is going to miss his rookie season with an injury. Long-term though, he could just be the replacement if they're not able to pay Hartenstein down the line. And all that's to say, Sam Presti in the front office have completely mastered the art of juggling multiple timelines. Even if absolutely nothing changed from last year, they'd be going into this season with the exact same rotation that just won 68 games in a championship. But if Jdub or Chet takes a leap or one of those young guards finds their way into consistent minutes, they could take another step forward like what the Warriors did in 2016. For that reason, they're still the best team in basketball and clear favorites. You could argue that they don't have a single weakness and they're clearly the number one defense while boasting at worst a top five offense. I wouldn't bet on it, but I wouldn't be shocked if they became the third team ever to win 70 games. And I think they're a lock for at least the conference finals, barring some major injury. If you're talking win now, they're on a short list of the best situations we've ever seen. If you're talking about future building, they're also on a short list. And if you combine the two, we could be looking at the 1980 Lakers, 1991 Bulls, or 2015 Warriors. Shai is 27 and in the heart of his prime. JDub's 24 and entering his. Chet’s 23, Wallace is about to turn 22, Topic is 20, and Sorber is a teenager. Also, this team has more draft capital than anyone in the league, owning 11 first round picks over the next seven years. As long as they're able to manage their cap situation without having to sacrifice their depth, it's hard to imagine them getting much worse for the remainder of the decade. And in this era of basketball with all of the talent and the CBA, if we're ever going to witness a dynasty, this is exactly what the roots would look like.
