For the first time in half a decade, it feels like the Trailblazers have serious direction. Between the addition of some veterans and the shaping out of their young core, things are starting to get really interesting in Portland. But what can we actually expect from them in 2026? Are they good enough to compete in the West? And what can we make of their future? Last season, the Blazers finished with both a below average offense and defense, which led to them picking up the 12th seed. What I think

gets overlooked, though, is that it was really a tale of two seasons for them. If we split the 82 games into separate halves, the Blazers went from a bottom five defense to finishing out the season as the second best defense in the NBA. And during that stretch, you could see the makings of a truly suffocating defensive unit. It all started with Toumani Camara, who emerged as maybe the most versatile defensive wing in the league. And when Mattisse Thybulle got healthy, that gave them two elite options for perimeter players. Then

between Deni Avdija, Jeremi Grant, Kris Murray, and Jabari Walker, they had a few big athletic forwards at their disposal to go to a ton of different lineups and coverages while it was all pulled together by Donovan Clingan in the middle, who was already one of the game's best interior defenders as a rookie. The problem is that while the defense came around, the offense never quite did. You could point to a lack of star power, not having a 20 point per game scorer or any sort of go-to scoring

action in the half court, but across the board, they struggled to take care of the ball, weren't a great three-point shooting team, and overall lacked both the shot creation and shot making to consistently produce good results. Well, these issues have only gotten worse in the off season. By trading Anthony Simons to the Celtics, they not only lost their leading scorer, they lost by far their best shooter and arguably their best overall shot creator. Also, they bought out DeAndre Aton's contract.

He was pretty clearly their most dynamic offensive big and their only multi-level scoring threat out of pick and roll. Now, this wouldn't be a problem at all if their newest addition, Damian Lillard, was healthy. Because while Donovan Clingan lacks the athleticism and intermediate scoring to really break down defenses on the role, he's more than capable of making plays out of the short role. And if there's one thing Dame does extremely well, it's create a four-on-three out of pick and roll.

Unfortunately, he's set to miss the entire season. And without another big-time pull-up shooting threat on the roster, it's pretty obvious just how much they lack shot creation. Unless somebody takes a major step forward. For the Blazers, Deni Avdija seems like the obvious breakout candidate. And I think it got somewhat overlooked how close he was to being an

all-star level player last season. I don't mean that from the standpoint of big numbers or that he was snubbed. I mean a few minor improvements from where he was already at could get him there. As a jumbosized forward, he's a legitimate initiator who can get downhill with ease where he's a triple threat. He can finish at the rim. He's elite at getting to the line and he can make a variety of passes out of drives. Then he also showed that he can be a respectable three-point shooter when

needed, upping his volume to nearly 5 threes a game at a 36 1/2% clip. With that said though, he turns the ball over quite a bit for how often he has it. He tends to be a bit passive at times. Instead of being in constant attack mode, and he's got basically no intermediate scoring game whatsoever. So, with some improvements to each of those areas, like adding a floater and doing a better job of taking care of the ball, I think we'd be talking about an all-star. If Denny's unable to take

those next steps, though, I'd say the next guy in line is Scoot Henderson. Like Deni, his jump shot really started to come around last year, particularly in the second half of the season. After January 1st, he made 37 and a half% of his threes on about five attempts a game. And if you remember, a reliable jumper was viewed as the biggest swing skill for him. He also made a quiet improvement in a few key areas, significantly improving his field goal percentage at the rim, which resulted in a big jump to his two-point percentage

while also cutting down on some of the turnovers. We've yet to see the highlevel slasher that was advertised in the draft, but some of the other stuff is starting to come together. So, heading into year three with a clearly defined role as the starting point guard, this could be the make or break season for his development. Speaking of make or break seasons, this is year four for Shaeden Sharpe, and it's time for him to start turning some of those flashes into consistent value. His scoring is pretty advanced for a

22-year-old. He's good at leveraging his freak athleticism into opportunities as a slasher in isolation, off of screens, and of course in transition. And he pairs that downhill pressure with a solid mid-range game. So, he can really get buckets inside the ark. With that said, his efficiency still lacks a bit behind what you'd want in a go-to scorer with his true shooting percentage falling well below league average in each of his first three seasons. And I think that's a function of two things

working against him. For one, he shoots a lot of threes but doesn't make a lot. Last season, he attempted nearly seven a game and made 31% of them. Either that needs to get up to 34 or 35% at least, or the volume has to get down to three or four attempts at most. Regardless, I think a bigger limitation right now is the lack of free throws. For a slash first athletic phenom, three or four free throws a game just simply isn't going to cut it. And if he's able to find more ways to use his body and draw

a couple more fouls, that would probably be the pathway to semi-efficient 20point scoring, and it'd make him a lot more consistent. With all of that said though, even if he's able to get to that next level as a scorer, the only way the Blazers will be able to justify giving him enough touches to really produce like that is if his passing follows suit. That's pretty easily the weakest part of his offense. And with how much pressure he generates out of drives, you'd love to see him make some more of

those finds. Let me just say though, there's a slim chance that none of this matters. Shaeden, Scoot, and Deni could all make marginal improvements, and this offense could still balloon depending on how close Yang Hansen gets to his ceiling. Between his innate feel for the game and high IQ, elite passing, capable ball handling, and monster screening, you could see the makings of a legitimate offensive focal point. And if he ever puts the entire package together with more shot creation out of the post

or potentially adding an outside shot, we'd be talking about one of the most dynamic offensive bigs in basketball. However, the question with Yang is whether or not he'll ever be able to defend at the NBA level. Because he's got the size, but between a lack of verticality, lack of agility, and weak positioning, he's probably entering the league as a liability. This is where things get extremely interesting for Portland moving forward. Of course, they've got time to figure everything

out, but they've got three centers who all have vastly different skill sets. Clingan's the starter, and while he's got some viability on offense between his size, screening, and passing, he's primarily on the floor to anchor the defense. And there aren't many bigs better right now. As a rookie, he was a monster shot blocker, elite drop defender. Truly, the only glaring weaknesses you could point to was that he fouled a lot and didn't always have the conditioning to play big minutes,

neither of which are rare issues for a firstear player. He'll always be somewhat limited by a lack of foot speed, but that's why he's surrounded by a ton of length and athleticism on the perimeter, and there's just such a high floor for any defense with that good of a paint protector. In that same line of thinking, Rob Williams is the third big. Of course, the question with him has always been health related. And the combined 61 games he's played over the last three years aren't exactly a great

signal, but anytime he's on the floor, he instantly becomes one of the best free safeties in the league with the length, athleticism, and instincts to completely blow up offenses from the backline. He's also quick enough to take on roles that those other bigs can't, though, whether that's switching or covering tons of ground on closeouts. And for that reason, it's not far-fetched to believe that he could spend a decent amount of time at the four, creating this supercharged paint

defense whenever he's paired with one of the other bigs. Really, that side of the ball should be the selling point with this roster because we could easily go back to those transactions and flip the script. Sure, they lost their best offensive guard in big, but those two guys also happen to be their worst defensive guard in big. Oh yeah, and I should also mention that in the trade for Simons, they received Jrue Holiday. I know he's 35 years old and going into year 17. The last time we saw him on an

NBA court, though, he was still a more than serviceable point of attack defender and will undoubtedly give the Blazers some quality minutes. Remember, we're talking about a team that just had the second best defense in the NBA over a 41game span, and they just got a whole lot better on defense. So, while they may not be able to score a whole lot, my question is, who's scoring on them? Assuming Jrue gets the starting spot, you put him alongside a top tier defensive wing in Coumara, another

athletic guard in Scoot, and a big versatile forward in Deni. That one through four should be able to switch across the board and contain everything around Clingan in the middle. On the bench, two glaring defensive weak points right now are Sharp and Young, but you've got another point of attack option, another big versatile forward, and the ultimate chess piece if he's healthy. For that reason, I wouldn't be surprised if the Blazers end up shocking a lot of people and perform a lot better

than most expect. History tells us that you can make the playoffs with a bad offense if you're that good defensively. Just look at the Magic last year. They ended up with the number 27 ranked offense yet still won 41 games. And the Blazers checked those boxes, grading out as one of the better defensive teams in pretty much every category. However, they also grade out as one of the worst offensive teams in pretty much every category. And that's the natural trade-off unless one of the guys I

talked about takes a major step forward. This is the type of team that could finish as a top 10 defense while dragging a bottom five offense. And those sorts of teams tend to win anywhere from 33 to 42 games. In a stacked Western Conference, I'd expect them to miss the playoffs. But I wouldn't put a sneaky playin appearance out of the realm of possibility. Even if they win 30 games and the season looks like a disaster, though, it wouldn't be time to panic whatsoever. They've got a

clear identity and they're still young. Yang is 20, Clingan and Scooter 21, Shaeden's 22, Deni's 24, and Camara's 25. It could take four years to build the roster out, and none of their core would be 30 yet. What I will say, though, is that the more you look at this roster with the defensive versatility, size, and athleticism at every position. All I'm saying is that it looks like an awfully good Damian Lillard squad. So, who knows? Maybe after a year of rehab, he's back to form, ready to go. And all

of a sudden, we're talking about this team in a completely different light.

